# Abstract
The US Treasury Bill rate is a critical indicator of the macro-economic condition. The interest rates of Treasury Bills inform the fundamentals of almost all other types of investment vehicles and thus reflect the overall market condition. When the economy slows down, the Fed lowers interest rates by purchasing Treasury securities to make borrowing more accessible and therefore stimulates economic growth; on the other hand, the interest rates are raised as a measure of controlling inflation. The objective of this study is to find an appropriate time series model to understand the variation in monthly rates for one-year Treasury Bills, and then forecast future rates based on the selected model. In this analysis, the data is collected on a monthly basis from January 1975 through October 2019 for Treasury Bills with one-year maturity, processed through transformation and differencing, and fitted with various time series models to find the best forecasting model. The analysis shows that ARIMA(4,1,5) is the best model to forecast future T-Bill rates and predict market condition for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 to inform investment decisions for both individual and private equity fund investors.
# Introduction
Treasury Bills (T-Bills) are government-issued short-term investment vehicles typically with a maturity of one-year or less. T-Bills are considered liquid, risk-free assets since investors are almost guaranteed to receive the face value upon maturity. Interest rates are critical because they not only are influenced by Fed’s monetary policy to regulate the economy but also reflect investors’ sentiment on events that affect the market. During periods of political and economic turmoil, for example, investors would withdraw from the riskier stock market and invest instead in the safer bond market, and vice versa. In this study, we analyze the monthly rates of T-Bills with one-year maturity spanning from January 1975 to October 2019, which cover three of the most notable economic booms and busts in the last 50 years, including the 1970s economic crash, the second worst recession since the Great Recession during 1981- 1982, the “dot com bubble” in the 1990s, and the 2008-2009 economic recession as a result of the housing bubble. As the interest rate (indicated by monthly one-year T-Bill rates) closely tracks the macroeconomic events and market condition in the U.S., it can be used to analyze the economic cycle and forecast market condition in the near future in order to guide investment decisions for investors, and more specifically, private equity (PE) investors. Private equities engage in leveraged buyouts – a type of investment strategy where they borrow money from the bond market to invest in privately-held companies. Lower interest rates make funds more available to private equities, lower their cost of capital and thus increase their returns. As the rate hikes over the course of 2018 and 2019 raised concerns on increasing cost of capital for private equity investors, we seek to understand and forecast the T-Bill rate, an important indicator for interest rate, for the first quarter of 2020. To that end, we analyze the fluctuation in the monthly 1-year T-Bill rates by fitting the processed data with various time series models including ETS(A,Ad,N), ARIMA(4,1,5), ARMA(4,5)+Garch(1,1), Neural Network, SETAR(1,4), LSTAR and Regression to find the best-fitting model to forecast the future T-Bill rates. Our result shows that ARIMA(4,1,5) provides the best forecast, which will be used to predict future rates and establish guideline for fund investors.
